# Introduction
- Underlying hardware required adjustments. Some of them provided a configuration utility.
- However, in mid 2000s, the configuration utility was provided in the **BIOS (Basic Input/Output System).
- It was the standard for firmware containing the basic configuration routines found in x86 motherboards.
- These x86 based machines were replaced with **UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface).

---
# Device Activation
- This can be achieved whe#n a specific keyboard key is pressed after the computer is turned on.

---
# Device Inspection in Linux
- When a piece of hardware is not detected by the operating system, it is most likely that the part or the port to which it is connected is defective.
- When the hardware part is correctly detected, but still does not properly work, there may be a problem on the operating system side.

## Two ways
- Specialized Commands
- Read specific files inside specific filesyatems.

### Commands for inspection
1. `lspci` ---> Shows all devices currently connected to the **PCI (Peripheral Component Interconnect)**. Both internal and external connected devices are included.
2. `lsusb` ---> Lists **USB (Universal Serial Bus)** . This includes keyboards, pointing devices, removable storage media.

---
## Kernel Modules
- The output of `lspci` and `lsusb` shows a list of USB and PCI devices found in the system.
- However the devices may not be operational since they require software components called as **kernel modules**.
- It can be a part of official Linux Kernel or or added separately from other sources.

### Drivers
Linux Kernel Modules.

---
## Command Outputs
- **Unique Addresses** ---> Hexadecimal Number
- **Internal Name**

### Know more details about a specific device
- `lspci -s ip_addr -v` ---> Know more details such as **kernel driver in use**, **kernel modules**

- `lspci -s ip_addr -k` ---> Less number of details.

- ---> **-s** choses a specific device,**-v** shows detailed output, **-k** shows less output.

- `lsusb -v -d ip_addr`  ---> **-d** is like **-s**.

- `lsusb -t` ---> 

---
